[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>On March 5, 1994,
Jose Escamilla
videotaped 16 minutes
of UFO footage
in broad daylight nine miles
south of Roswell, New Mexico.
He thought this would be
the only UFO encounter he
and his family would ever have.
14 days later, he
captured something
on videotape that would
forever change his life.
He discovered something
flying in the skies that
just didn't look normal.
At first, he thought
they were insects flying
close to the video camera.
After a number of
tests, he found out
they were not insects.
He found out they
were not birds.
Instead, he discovered something
that will forever change
the way we accept reality.
They are called rods, and they
are appearing everywhere all
over the world.
>>What we found here at Midway
is an important discovery.
I think that
everyone in the world
should realize that we
are being visited by--
or we have among us
many objects that we
feel are biological entities.
Although we've filmed a lot
of dome objects and things
like this, there are objects
that are flying around,
even over Roswell, called rods.
And we're asking everyone in
New Mexico, Texas, Arizona,
and people of all
over the world to film
on Christmas day,
a two-hour tape,
and put your time and date, as
you see on the screen there.
>>Right.
>>And we're going to
see if these rods are
found in other areas.
There's a rod right there.
These things are anywhere
from 50 to 100 feet long.
>>Incredible.
>>Yeah.
At first I was kind of reluctant
to release information on rods,
because as you saw
there, I thought
they were 100 feet long.
And we just didn't know
enough about this phenomenon.
I had never
experienced it before.
I mean, the UFO object,
you see a disk shape.
All right, that
conforms with most
of the sightings that have
occurred over the last 50
years.
But rods were a total
different thing.
They looked like flying
snakes, and they were just
kind of a little bizarre.
And I still had a little
doubt in the back of my mind
as to whether I was really
filming with the right shutter
setting and I was really
getting the right results.
It wasn't until we got a hold
of a 1/10,000 shutter setting
on the camera that we said, aha,
we now have absolute evidence
that these things are real.
Because now we've got insects
and birds shot at that shutter
setting, and now we have rods,
and there's a difference.
>>All right.
Well, I was born in
Wisconsin, grew up there,
moved out to Arizona,
been involved
in a lot of crazy
things in my life,
managed to-- I'm a
pro skateboarder.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hey, guys.
Jeff Ferris here for
Spohn Ranch, Incorporated.
Right now on the vert ramp.
Been making a living doing
that for most of my adult life.
But since I was a kid, I've
always been interested in UFOs.
And I had moved out
to Arizona and heard
about a convention,
a UFO convention,
that was coming into town.
So I decided to pack on
up and move on down there
and check it out.
And I was looking at a lot
of the different speakers,
the lectures and things
that were happening,
and I've always had an interest
in UFO footage, video footage,
people that claim that
they've captured things
on home video camcorder.
And pretty much
the only guy there
that seemed to be right
on the money with that
was Jose, the Midway
UFO sightings.
So I went, saw some fairly
amazing clips of daylight disks
and little white
objects cruising around.
And then he started
showing me rods.
And I had never seen
anything like that.
It completely blew me away.
I was really intrigued.
It was definitely a complete
new phenomenon as far as
what I had seen
as far as UFOs go.
So I got involved
in the research.
>>I first got involved in the
phenomenon of rods back in '95
when Jose Escamilla came up and
spoke for us at Colorado MUFON.
And I wasn't able
to make his lecture.
And Galen Sharpe, one of
our section directors,
had bought Jose's
video and brought it
to the next directors meeting.
After the meeting,
Galen said, hey,
I got something
really interesting I
want to get your opinion on.
And he started playing
Jose's tape back,
and he basically fast-forwarded
through all this incredible UFO
footage and went straight
to the end of the video.
And at that point, what we
saw was these first rod shots
that Jose had taken.
And with my background
and in the Army
and looking at insects,
I thought that there
was something unusual there.
I definitely didn't recognize it
as anything I had seen before.
>>And so I decided to
give it a shot myself,
set up the camera
in the backyard
for a period of two days.
In December of 1994, I started
getting things, what I thought
looked really similar
to what he had captured.
So I sent off my
footage to Jose,
and he was able to scan
it, load into his computer,
and analyze it a
little bit better
and basically told me that I was
capturing rods, the same thing
that he had been taping,
which kind of brought up
the whole idea that maybe
these are not unique to just
one certain area.
Maybe this is
something that can be
found in other
countries, other states.
>>The next state
meeting that we had,
Jose was there in the
audience, unbeknownst to me,
and I took the opportunity
to introduce myself to him
and found out that he
had moved to Colorado
and was now basically
a neighbor of mine.
He lived only about
10 minutes away.
So I took advantage
of that opportunity
and asked Jose if I could
look at what he's got on rods.
And he was very gracious,
invited me over.
And that began a
period of time where
I would go over about
two or three times a week
for about two or
three hours at a time
and just had him start with
the very first rod footage
and sat down over his
shoulder and looked at it
all from the very beginning.
>>I've been very fortunate
in having James Peters work
with me, because up until
1995 when he came on board--
I believe it was July
of '95 when he first
made the trip to my house
and he sat down with me
and looked at all
the footage that I
had accumulated at that time.
Up until that time,
I just had no clue.
I'm the type of guy who
just presents it as it is.
I tried to keep it, though,
in a biological sense.
Back as early as the
middle part of '94,
I said it's a biological entity
of some kind, a living entity.
>>Jose was already getting
a little bit of flak,
particularly on the internet,
regarding the first rod shots.
Because the people
who were skeptics
who were analyzing
what they were seeing
were saying that
they were blurred
images of insects and birds.
And I knew that
some of the shots
were-- while I was convinced
that they were of rods,
that they were not
bugs and birds,
they were so blurred that they
really didn't help the case,
didn't help the
argument otherwise.
>>We wanted to make sure we
weren't just filming insects
and birds from the get-go.
Now, this was back in 1994.
In the first video
that I released,
"Rods and Mysterious
Objects Among Us,"
I demonstrated how if you
shoot at a low shutter setting,
you're going to get an
insect that emulates a rod.
Skeptics have always come out,
and they try to debunk me,
and we covered every base.
Going in, I knew that
we would have to stay
a step ahead of the skeptics.
The first thing they're going
to say, it's the planet Venus.
That's always their out.
But that was eliminated
from day one.
Lens flares, we eliminated that.
We purposefully shot towards
the sun, and we let it roll,
and sure enough, birds
would fly through,
rods would fly through.
So we eliminated birds.
We've eliminated
insects, of course.
And the critics today still want
to try to push that on this.
>>So once we started
getting better footage in
and the sky fishing
protocol started
being practiced by
more people and also we
started to get footage taken
by professional videographers
with better cameras,
then we started
getting more clarity and
resolution on the footage
that we were getting.
And it became very apparent
at that point that what we had
was a very distinct phenomenon.
>>So once we got
that protocol set up,
the sky-fishing protocol,
we started getting
more and more people involved.
And it's been good,
because we now
have solid evidence
that these things,
and we're starting
to see a familiarity
in the way their flight
characteristics are.
I mean, they definitely have
a certain fly characteristic.
They don't fly through the air.
They swim through the air.
And that's a different
characteristic
than I'd seen before.
They're swimming.
I mean, they're going
just as fast as fish.
That's why I call them
sky fish, because they're
deliberate in their motion.
And when I started seeing
the footage of rods
entering the water and coming
out of the water-- wow.
That really did it for me.
It just totally blew me out
of the sky, so to speak.
The Cave of the Swallow,
Sotano de las Golondrinas,
is one of the most
amazing places
I've ever been to in my life.
This is definitely
one of the habitats
that we know of in the world.
You have to fly to Mexico
City, catch a plane from Mexico
City to Tampico Bay.
And then you drive two
and a half hours inland
towards the northwest to a
little town called Aquismon.
Now, Aquismon is
a little village.
And it's your typical
village of the Old West.
Then it's a one-hour
drive up the mountain.
No matter how fast you go
up, no matter how slow it is,
it's always a one-hour
drive straight up.
And you're going
up from sea level
up to 2,900 feet
above sea level.
Then you're going to take
another 20- or 30-minute jaunt
across rocky terrain and
an area where there's
got wild dogs and things.
And there's a lot
of Indian people
that live out there
in the mountain.
And you're going to
go another 20 minutes
until you get to the cave.
And when you get there,
you can hear the swallows
as you get closer to the cave.
And you have to go
through this underbrush.
The underbrush is pretty thick.
It's like a jungle, you know.
And you get there, and
once you behold the scene,
it's just like no other feeling.
I mean, it's just incredible.
It's like walking up to an
unknown subterranean valley.
I mean, you just get
this overwhelming feeling
like you're in "Journey to the
Center of the Earth," you know?
This extraordinary pit in
Mexico called Sotano de las
Golondrinas, which
literally translates
to Pit or Cave of the Swallows.
It in and of itself is just
an awesome geologic formation.
It's a vertical pit.
It has a sloped bottom.
It is so immense that you can
literally take the Empire State
Building and set
it inside this pit,
and no part of the
Empire State Building
would touch any of its sides.
And just as they leap off
of towers and buildings
and bridges and
things like that,
base jumpers are now leaping off
the lip of the cave as sport.
When I first got there for
the first time in 1999,
I was expecting to see rods
zipping by but in slow motion.
Up until that time, I'd
been looking at rods
at the cave in slow motion.
And I got there, and I
was disappointed because I
couldn't see anything.
All I saw was insects
and parrots and birds.
And so I started going, maybe
we misidentified this thing
after all.
I don't see rods.
And all of a sudden,
the camera man that
was with me, the
TV camera guy, he
called me-- I had a
video camcorder here.
And he says, Jose, look!
I glanced at him, and out
of the corner of my eye
I saw this thing fly right
in front of me, just whoom!
And I just reeled back,
and it was a rod-- not
a bird, not a parrot.
It was not an insect.
It was a rod.
And then I started
remembering and recalling
how fast these things are.
I mean, they're like bam,
bam, zipping right by me.
And I was just not
even registering
that because I was so
used to and conditioned
to seeing them in slow motion.
>>What we want to
show you now are
some of the specific video
clips that we show the best
evidence for rods, showing it
as being a unique phenomena
and not just a blurred
insect or a bird
and in particular showing the
speed in which they travel
and some of their flight
dynamics, which are not
shared with bugs or
birds, which again
is more evidence
for my hypothesis
of what we're dealing
with here is a creature
that's unique on this planet.
It doesn't fly like
any other creature.
It doesn't fly like insects.
It doesn't fly like birds.
And it has a unique physiology
and physical structure
unlike anything else we see.
One shot that I like a
lot at the very beginning
when the very first cave
footage that we were getting
from Sotano de las Golondrinas
is a shot where a rod flies
over the shoulder
of the videographer
and for a short while is flying
directly away from the camera.
Now, what's important in that is
that you see the rod maintains
its long shape
through the entire arc
and curve of its
flight, which precludes
that its long shape is
actually a blurred insect.
Because you're not going
to get that blurring--
there's no motion blur
flying away from the lens
or towards the lens.
And as the rod is
banking, it also
shows that it's actually
using aerodynamics.
It's pressing against the air.
It has to bank to make the turn.
And you can see some physical
features from this shot also
that preclude it from
being an insect or a bird.
When you see it
directly from the end,
you can see that its body, in
cross-section, in other words,
would be spherical.
And the wings are
mounted directly
out of the side of the body.
Now, both birds and
insects, their wings
are mounted on the upper part
of the thorax near the top
of their back, in other words.
And here, we see that these
wings are coming straight
out of the side of the body.
So there you have
strong evidence
of the physiology of the rod
is different from an insect
or a bird.
Also you notice that there
aren't any legs dangling
down off of it, either.
The shot is clear enough that
if you had any antennae sticking
off the top or legs
hanging down off of it,
as all insects do when
they fly, that they would
be very clear in the shot,
because the rod is brightly
lit in the sun, and
yet it's contrasted
in the dark background
of the cave,
and any legs would
be clearly seen.
We have no problem
making out the wings.
And the rod finishes the turn in
this graceful bank in the shot
and zips on out of the way.
And it even gives you an
idea of its size because
of its proximity to the camera.
So that one shot has
a lot of information
that we can use, showing
that rods again are unique
and to answer the
questions regarding
motion blur and misfilmed
insects and birds.
Another shot that we have
from the cave in Mexico
is where the rod is
actually entering
the shadow of the cave.
Now, why this is
important is that we
have the base jumper
in the background,
and so we have him as one
of our reference points.
We know that he's approximately
six foot in height.
We know that his speed is going
to be right around terminal
velocity, so anywhere
between like 90
and maybe 120 miles an hour.
And at the same token, this
was taken in the afternoon,
and we have a shadow that's
being cast by the leading
edge of the cave on the leading
edge that's closest to the sun.
And this shadow
is leaving a line
across the back
wall of the cave,
so you can clearly see the
angle of the shadow falling
through the mouth of the cave.
Now, the base
jumper is in, like I
said, kind of in the
rear 2/3 of the cave
from the point of
the videographer.
And you can see him, that
he's still in daylight.
And between him and
the camera is a rod.
And yet the rod breaks
through the shadow
that the cave is being cast.
Now, this is
significant because it
means that the rod had to be
some distance from the camera.
If it was too close
to the camera,
it would not have been even
in the field of view at all.
For this rod to have been
caught in the shadow,
it had to be some
distance, most likely
at least halfway the
distance between the camera
and the base jumper for it to
even be seen entering a shadow.
Also, with the rod
entering the shadow,
we have one frame where you
can see about 3/4 of the rod
is in shadow, and just a
last little section of it
is still remaining
in the sunlight.
And if that was motion
blur, you would not
be able to get that effect.
You would get a streaking
effect out of it.
So what we see is
basically we know
we have a snapshot of a
cylindrical-shaped animal
in this case.
And again, we also have the
base jumper in the background.
He's not unusually
blurred, and we
know that he's traveling at
a high rate of speed also.
Bruce Maccabee was able to
make some calculations of this,
and his rough calculations
were able to give us
an approximation to
the size of this rod.
And we filmed this particular
shot that on the small end,
the rod was maybe
two feet in length.
And on the large end, it
could have been easily
four feet in length.
>>Another one of
our favorite shots
is where a swallow
gives chase after a rod.
Now, this sequence in
two different clips.
The first clip shows the
agility and the speed
in which a swallow can fly.
As you can see here,
the base jumper
takes a dive into the cave,
and here you see the swallow
as it emerges out
of its nest, which
is located at the side of the
cave wall there, the rock wall.
You can see the swallow
emerge out of its nest,
and it catches up,
almost catches up,
to the base jumper, where
it nearly pecks its foot.
Now, what this shows us
the agility and the speed
in which swallows can fly.
As you can see here,
the base jumper
is probably reaching
terminal velocity,
which is close to 90
to 100 miles an hour.
And a swallow is
able to go from zero
to 90 practically and
within four or five seconds.
So this is a very
fast and agile bird.
Now, the next sequence is
the full sequence, where
the swallow chases after a rod.
>>Now, why this shot
is important is that,
for one thing, we actually
show a bird and a rod
flying side by side.
So obviously the rod is
not in this film a bird.
Also, you can see
the size of the rod
is very close to the
size of the swallow.
So that means that it's not
an insect as we know it.
Swallows will eat insects, and
they catch insects on the wing.
That's how they live.
>>Now, as you can see here, the
swallow comes out at an angle.
It leaves its nest,
which is located
right under the bush here.
That's the swallow going to
the left, where the arrow is
pointing, and there you
see the rod coming in,
two total distinct shapes.
Now you see the rod travels
continuously under the bush.
The swallow all of a
sudden makes a U-turn
and goes back towards
where the rod is flying.
And right about here
is where the rod senses
it's being chased
and where the swallow
takes a dive at the rod.
And here you see
them both on the run.
>>But here we have a rod that
actually changes its flight
path and is actually able
to out-fly, out-maneuver,
and out-accelerate the swallow,
which also precludes it
from being an insect, because
those are regular parts
of a swallow's diet.
And so they would
naturally be able to catch
an insect on the wing.
>>Another one of
our favorite shots
is where the base jumper
is falling into the pit,
and the rod flies in between
the camera and the base jumper.
The rod is in perfect focus.
So we get a lot more
clearer detail of the rod
as it passes by.
And this is one of
our favorite shots,
because we can actually
see the membrane
along both sides of the torso
that we've talked about.
And this is definitely
one of our best shots
that we've seen of a
clear image of a rod.
>>What we have is a
professional videographer
who is taking some
footage for the military,
the Swedish military in Sweden.
And it was a proving
grounds where
they're developing a new type
of rapid-firing light tank.
And this tank is capable
of firing rounds,
four rounds per second.
And some of the
footage that he had
taken, he had caught
rods at various times
during the proving
grounds, where
he's focused on this light tank
and rods were flying around.
But in this particular shot,
you have the tank at rest,
and it's just a
firing demonstration.
And it fires off eight
shots in two seconds.
And as the tank
is firing, we can
see the shell casings
being ejected out
of the top of the
turret of the tank.
And they're very clear.
And while the projectile
itself is too fast
to be caught by the motion, we
can see the dust being raised,
we can see the
recoil of the barrel,
and we can see these casings
flipping up and arcing
through the air.
And while this
firing is going on,
we have a rod that
flies completely
through the field of
view from left to right.
And it is so fast that
the casings are only
moving probably about 8
inches to 12 inches in the air
while the rod flies through
the entire field of view.
Now, why that's
critical is, number one,
we have a professional
videographer,
who obviously knows his camera.
We can trust his
information that he gives us
regarding his camera, his lens,
the speed, the conditions that
were taken at the time.
We have information
regarding the tank, the speed
of the film, frames per second.
And this is something we don't
normally get from an amateur
with his camcorder
in his backyard.
So we have a quality camera
with a high resolution.
We have film that was actually
shot purposefully at high speed
to capture the action of this
barrel and the shell casings
as they're ejected
from this tank.
And then we have the rod flying
by the entire field of view.
So we get it in many
frames and many fields,
and it travels through
the full length of it.
Also another interesting
thing about this
is that the object, the rod, is
flying by very near proximity
to this cannon,
which is very loud,
not only in decibels loud,
but also the actual pressure.
You can feel the pressure coming
off the barrel of this thing.
It's kicking the dust up off the
ground in front of the cannon.
It's rocking the tank
back with each shot.
And yet whatever this
is decides to fly
right by the barrel of this gun.
Now, I dare to say
what kind of bird
would be attracted to
that kind of situation.
[GUNFIRE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>One of my favorite
rod shots, of course,
is of the rods
entering the ocean
and again showing the
uniqueness of the phenomena.
There is no insect that
we know that will dive
into the ocean of one thing.
Most aquatic insects, their life
cycles are with fresh water.
And also, this is the deep
ocean out near the Sargasso Sea.
And in this shot, we have
a loggerhead sea turtle,
a juvenile that's
swimming about four feet
below the surface of the water.
And the cameraman is below
him and looking upwards.
>>And you could see
a rod coming in,
and it's coming in like
this outside of the water.
And you see it hit the water.
It leaves a bubble
trail and enters in.
And there's about three or
four of them that just zip by.
And they're going just as
fast as rods do in the sky.
>>And in rapid
succession, we see
the surface of the water
break with these splashes
and these pencil-thin
bubble trails
zipping through the
water, it looks almost
like bullets hitting the water.
And then coming down to about
the level of the camera,
we see them level off and
shoot out to the right.
And when you slow them down,
what we're seeing in the ocean
is exactly what
we see in the air.
And basically, we have rods.
And we're catching them actually
entering from the atmosphere
into the ocean.
And it's kind of
peculiar that we
saw this, because
everything we saw
about their physical
structure and how
they swim through
the atmosphere now
correlates with them actually
swimming through the ocean.
>>They're going just as fast as
rods do in the sky under water.
So it's an incredible phenomena.
Whatever these things are,
they have mastered the ability
to travel through both
mediums as if there's
nothing really there, just like
traveling through dimensions.
It's amazing.
No telling what these
things are going
to teach us once
we catch a specimen
and investigate
what its makeup is.
>>I think what we have here
is an example like we've
seen with the penguin.
And we know in a penguin that
what it uses for flippers today
were structures that
were originally developed
for flight in the air.
And as it's now evolving into
a more aquatic lifestyle, what
used to be wings for
flying in the air
are now turning into
flippers or wings
for flying through the ocean.
And I think with the
rod, what we have here is
a species that at one
time was purely aquatic,
but as it became
airborne through more
of its lifecycle, what it
used as fins for swimming
through the ocean it is now
using its fins for swimming
through the air.
And so we see that
its structure,
its physical structure, serves
equally as well in the water
as it does in the air.
>>This was a critical
thing for rods,
because when I was
first looking at rods,
I was seeing what
we were calling
the centipede rods,
which usually had kind
of almost like balls
of light running down
the side of the body.
And then others rod
shots where we'd
get like four bright areas on
one side of the body and three
on the other.
And then in the next frame,
there would be different ones.
And I'm going like--
at one time we thought
that they had fins running
out going through their body
or wings running down
the length of the body.
But I'm going, that's not
what the data is telling us.
I mean, when we look at
this, one frame to the next,
the physical structure
was being different.
And I just-- I
mean, I knew there's
got to be something
that would explain
what we're seeing in every
shot no matter what angle,
no matter what the
light was like.
There had to be something there.
I was sitting behind Jose, and
next to his computer monitor,
he had an eagle feather.
And I looked at
that eagle feather,
and I saw how the feathers
in the quill were aligned.
And I said, that's it.
That will do it.
That will explain what
we're seeing-- not that it's
a feather, but that
outline of the structure,
meaning that you had
a cylindrical body,
and then from the body
coming out along the sides,
you had one single
fin, not a bunch
of individual little
fins, but one single fin.
And if that fin was translucent,
which was basically invisible,
allowed the light
to pass through it.
But it was an undulation.
Then what would happen
is that it would just
catch the light
from certain angles
so that you would
get a reflection off
of it just through
certain parts of the humps
of the undulations.
Or if the light was
passing through the fin,
it would be a little bit more
opaque because of the angle
and the amount, the
refraction of the light.
From another angle,
the fin would overlap,
and so it would show
up as a bright spot,
too, because now you
were looking through two
fins instead of one.
Finally we had a
model for a rod that
would explain all of the
shots that we were getting.
No matter who took it
and where it was taken
and what the lighting conditions
were, we could now make it fit.
>>Searching back in
history, the closest analog
in which an animal
kept its body stiff
and had wave fins on
the side that moved
would be Anomalocaris, which
was the dominant predator
during the Cambrian period.
The phylum died out at the
end of the Cambrian period,
and people thought
it was extinct.
But it might just possibly
still be alive in rods.
>>Anomalocaris was a large
creature that was a predator.
It was on the top
of its food chain.
It was very agile, and it
swam using the same method
of propulsion that
we see rods use
to not only swim
through the ocean
but to swim through the air.
It had a series of
paddle-like appendages
and ran down a body that
overlapped each other.
And it used this undulatory
method of propulsion
that we see also, for
example, in cuttlefish today
in the ocean.
Anomalocaris was
large and also seemed
to be almost the same
size that we do see
rods, one, two feet in length.
And an interesting
thing about Anomalocaris
is that some believe that it is
a phylum that became extinct.
What we might see, actually,
is that Anomalocaris,
while being a very
successful life form
that existed for over 100
million years in our oceans,
actually didn't become
extinct but maybe evolved
into another form.
The one reason why we're
intrigued about this idea
is by the work of a Dr.
Robin Wootton out of Exeter
University in England.
Dr. Wootton came up with
a hypothetical creature
called the protopterygote.
>>I'm of the opinion
that what rods are,
are the world's
first flying organism
and an ancient, long thought to
be extinct insect that actually
represents a missing link
in the world of entomology
and paleontology.
What you basically
have is when people
look at the evolution
of insect flight
and how insects went from just
being terrestrial creatures
that crawled with legs to
aerodynamic creatures that
actually could take and make
the atmosphere their domain,
the question exists of, how
in the world did that happen?
>>Dr. Wootton out of Exeter
University in London,
he's come up with a hypothetical
creature, what he thought
would be the ancestor
of today's insects.
He calls it protopterygote.
This is a creature that
he says existed probably
350 million years ago.
>>We have the
protopterygote model,
which is a hypothetical
creature that
could show you the physical
form, the physical type
of the ancestor of winged
insects as a viable shape
for an organism.
And not only that, it's
viable aerodynamically.
They actually made gliders and
have flown these little models
of the protopterygote to
show that they do glide
and they have stability
and they're aerodynamically
worthy of flight.
>>This missing link actually
was aerodynamic but not winged.
So the idea there
is that rods could
have taken to the atmosphere
since they're the longest
and most evolved aerodynamic
species in the world,
that they quite
possibly could have made
the atmosphere their
domain and never
had a reason to come back to
being a terrestrial creature.
>>And when you apply
evolution to the equation,
protopterygote could have
started with little winglets
but evolved into
a solid membrane.
>>And I believe that that's
where the rod's mystery lies
in the world of pragmatic
science and evolution,
paleontology.
And that those
are the people who
have to really help answer the
question of what rods might be,
because I really think
that that's the key.
>>In any circumstance,
one thing this does
show that this is
a model that nature
has engineered in the past.
So it's not too far-fetched
that something like this
could still exist in
our environment today.
>>Oh, well, the impact
for human technology,
if we find that these
creatures fly in the manner
that we think they do, it opens
up a whole other possibility
for flight surfaces.
And it's totally
different from birds.
It's totally different
from insects.
They use a basic thing.
This is basically
swimming through the air
through very fast action of
the membrane along the sides.
It allows possibilities for
technological development.
Since most of the technology
we have right now is basically
imitations of natural
phenomena or natural things,
we would have another
model on which we could
develop future technologies.
>>At the Georgia Tech
Research Institute,
a Dr. Robert Michelson
and his design team
are working on a micro,
unmanned, aerial vehicle that
could actually be used
as a robotic probe
in the atmosphere of Mars.
This micro vehicle,
aerial vehicle,
is going to have a
long, cylindrical body,
and it's going to be powered
by a chemical muscle.
And this chemical
muscle is going
to drive a pair of wings,
one pair of wings mounted
at the front of the body and
another pair of wings mounted
in the back.
But you have basically the
same design of the rod model.
The only difference is that
we have a long, undulatory fin
running down the
side of the body,
while they have these
two separate wings.
But if you actually look at
the surface area of their wings
and rand them down the length
of the side of the body,
you would basically have same
surface area or wing area
that we're showing with rods.
And what they're saying
is that this model,
this aerodynamic
model, is so efficient
that it would be able to propel
this robotic probe in the very
thin, rarefied
atmosphere of Mars.
So that means that
that model has
to be a very efficient
mode of flight.
So I think that also gives
more credibility and showing
that the rod model is viable.
>>I have seen the films.
I've seen the evidence.
I've talked to
several people that
have been involved with rods.
And I think it
belongs in this study.
The UFO mystery is broad.
There are a lot of things
causing UFO sightings,
sighting reports.
Rods is probably one of them.
The evidence I've seen
is kind of overwhelming.
You get video after
video after video
of very strange things flying
around in our air, some of them
very rapidly, some of them
large, some of them small.
We're dealing with
a mystery, and it's
part of the science of
studying these things.
And rods are important
to us as a result.
>>We could go into the
background of eliminating
certain things, but
the bottom line for me
right now is I think that they
are a newly discovered type
of living organism
that's kind of flying,
or maybe a better
word is swimming.
I don't know if they're
very light or what they are,
but they seem to be
swimming like fish
swim in water, except
they're swimming in the air.
They go very fast so that
people don't see them.
>>So in your personal
opinion, Roger,
what do you believe this
discovered life form to be?
>>As to what a rod is,
my own personal belief
is that it's a
life form, and it's
a life form that has
not been described
in our own earthly
environment before,
primarily because it's very
difficult to see and maybe even
capture.
>>It's also been reported
that some of this rod activity
has been seen during
UFO sightings.
Do you think there could
be in connection with this?
Or is it just
purely coincidental?
>>If the major
premises is that rods
are part of our
natural environment
and UFOs are craft
that are piloted
by pilots from somewhere else,
it's two different things.
Perhaps more rods are seen
during periods of UFO activity
because there's some kind
of electromagnetic changes
in the atmosphere which cause
our visual acuity to reach
to the point where
we can see them.
>>Investigating
the rod phenomenon,
it's been very important
to keep an open mind
and to take in the totality of
all the evidence that we have.
Now, in addition to the
video footage that we have,
we also have moving film.
We have still film showing that
it's not just a video artifact,
a trick of the CCDs and
the video cameras that
are causing this.
It's not an electrical
artifact of any kind.
Whether the camera
is film or video
has no change in the
phenomena showing up
or the types of lenses
that are being used.
The evidence shows that
rods exist in both mediums.
Another thing is also
the eyewitness testimony
that we have, not only in
our personal sightings,
but those unsolicited
reports that
have come in where we
see unique features,
physical features of the
rods, unique characteristics
about how they move,
things that we've
suspected privately but
never released publicly
and yet people are reporting
on a consistent basis, which
just is more evidence to me
that we have a real creature
out there that these
people are coming across
in their day-to-day lives.
We have numerous accounts
of people seeing things,
running across
strange creatures.
And they've wondered
what it is they've seen.
And these accounts go
many years back and even
to include petroglyphs
that we have
found reports of in Argentina.
Now, these petroglyphs
are easily 1,000,
maybe even 1,500, years old.
And side by side,
these rock carvings
are next to other carvings of
where the shaman of that area
would go up and have
their vision quests.
And we see some of
the classic spiral
patterns and other designs and
anthropomorphic figures carved
in the rocks.
And then right next
to them are what have
to be basically rod shapes.
If anybody was to draw a rod,
we have many different versions
of rods being drawn
on these rocks.
>>I know these films are totally
authentic and well taped,
well researched.
The teams that have gone in and
done them are excellent teams.
So I say, yeah, we got a mystery
here that's worth following.
>>The secrets and the answers to
this whole mystery, I believe,
lie in the proper use
of high-speed cameras,
proper knowledge of the
history of ancient insects
and the evolution of insect
flight, and the identification
into this kind of missing
link in the biological world.
And I think that's
where the keys will
be to unlocking this mystery.
>>What you found is
really what's out there.
And what's out there seems to
be maneuvering and changing
direction and seems
to be some kind of-- I
don't know if what you'd call
is intelligence, but at least
some kind of living organism
that follows its instincts.
And I think that you've come
across a new life form that
swims in the air,
that usually flies
so fast that we can't see it.
>>For science to accept
rods as a real thing,
we basically need a specimen.
Now, the cameras
are good, and I've
seen many, many videos in
the right situation that
show that there's something
there that really can't be
explained by birds or insects.
But science really demands
the ultimate proof,
and that would be a specimen.
>>The end will come.
This will culminate when they
actually have a rod, perhaps
a dead one to start
and then a living one,
so that it can be studied.
And at that time, the
information will be out,
and I hope we get
the acknowledgements
that they deserve for
discovering a new life
form in our environment.
>>I think probably
in the coming year,
we're going to make
huge breakthroughs.
And that's all going to
be in part from everyone
out there, people
that are joining us.
And if you have an interest in
this, tell everyone about it.
Make it known.
Tell your friends about it.
Start videotaping on your own.
>>I'd like to see the
rod's research progress
to the point where not only do
we have individuals who pursue
this and with their own
ideas, their own equipment,
trying out new ways
to capture rods,
not only with video technology,
but also to physically capture
one, coming up with ideas to
build traps or other devices
to where we can get a specimen.
And we're hoping
that people will
be able to go out and on their
own find a little bit of nature
in their backyard, so to speak,
with this strange phenomena
that seems to have been living
right under all our noses
all these years.
And who knows that somebody
who is seeing this video
will be the next one to
actually capture a rod
or get the next big
breakthrough in rods research.
And we'll all benefit from it.
>>So the rods are an
incredible phenomenon.
It's something that definitely
has to be addressed.
The scientific
community is going
to wake up one of these days.
I do think there's probably
a possibility of a specimen
actually in some jar somewhere
and classified as an unknown.
And I'd like to definitely get
a specimen in our possession,
I mean, that would be
the coup de grace for us.
>>During the production
of this program,
an alleged rod specimen was
submitted to Jose Escamilla
by an eyewitness who claimed to
have killed a rod in her home.
Although we have
searched for a specimen
of a rod for many years,
until further tests are
done with DNA and
other types of study,
this particular specimen
remains as an unknown.
The following is
coverage of the specimen
as it was delivered
to Jose Escamilla
and a preliminary examination
being done by James Peters.
The narrative is of
the original email
sent to Jose
Escamilla describing
how the specimen was acquired.
>>"When I first saw it,
I was in my living room,
and as most of my
furnishings are dark in color
and this thing is
light in color.
It would zip past
my line of sight,
and it was way faster
than a housefly.
What convinced me was
on the third evening.
I caught its movement out
of the corner of my eye.
I thought to myself,
just sit real still
and see what this
thing's going to do.
"The next day, I sat down with
my dinner to watch the tube,
and I felt something flutter
up the side of my knee.
I brush-swatted it
in an upward motion.
There on the top of my
knee was this thing.
One end looked like it
had a suction cup on it.
I had mangled it up pretty good.
I knew the second I saw it that
I had killed this living thing.
"I just sat there looking at it.
I knew it was important
to save, so I put it
in the freezer for
three days until I
contacted Jose Escamilla."
>>The first thing you can see
is this is a medical sampling
container.
It's used for specimen samples.
And it is marked
as being sterile,
so we shouldn't worry about
any contamination of anything
else other than the
specimen itself.
And you can see there's
nothing inside the lid.
And in the container
itself, apparently it's
wrapped in this gauze.
So I'm going to go ahead
and pull the gauze out.
And you can see there's
nothing left in the container
and there doesn't seem to
be any liquid or any pieces
of any kind.
So open this up here.
All right, I'm going to go ahead
and start my recording on this.
So specimen is open now.
It's brownish in color.
Really hard to say at first
look what it might be.
Yet according to the
person who captured this,
it landed on their leg, and
they rubbed it with their hand.
OK, I'm going to go ahead
and take this sample
and put it on the paper.
There seems to be a small,
brown speck still here.
Let's see if I can get that off.
You can see the gauze
seems to be clean
now, nothing on the other side
of it or on the other piece
here.
OK, well at face
value right now,
we are working off
of one assumption,
and that is that
according to the person
that sent us this specimen
that it's the entire organism,
what's left.
And so as long as it's not
just a part of something
larger, what we
can see is a lack
of any physical
structure that would
indicate that it's an insect.
It is rather desiccated.
It's rather dried out.
But we can see that the
exoskeleton of an insect
should still be identifiable,
either with a head, thorax,
abdomen, legs, wings, antennae.
We don't see any of
those physical structures
here at all.
>>OK, on the graph paper,
what we're looking at here
is the grid is in
one-inch increments split
into tenths of an inch.
So the large squares
are one-inch square.
The small squares are ten
small squares to inches.
So those are tenths of an inch.
Now, according to the
witness who captured this,
this object was originally
2 and 1/2 inches long.
So according to the
witness, this pen cap
here would have been very close
to the original length of what
we are seeing now in this
dried-up, desiccated sample.
So it's gone from
this to this, which
would indicate that if this was
the entire specimen, that there
wasn't a whole lot as
far as its original mass.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>A Japanese
television network had
agreed to do a DNA test
on a part of the specimen,
but they were unable
to get results
done in time for the release
of this presentation.
The specimen is
in the possession
of Jose Escamilla
and James Peters,
and as soon as the
tests are done,
we will publish the results with
all materials on the Roswell
Rods website.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>So the rods--
>>--rods--
>>Rods rule.
>>So the only thing
that's left, Jeff,
is to find a good
position to put the camera
and let her roll.
[MUSIC PLAYING]